Project

The software project is the main assessment component of this course. The aim is to develop and then execute a project plan for a moderately sized software project in teams of 4-5 students from the same meeting group, and then implement that plan following the Scrum process. You will need to assign Scrum roles within the project team, but all members must take on the developer role and contribute to software develpment.

The project plan will be developed in the first half of the semester, presented to the meeting group in Week 6 or 7 for feedback, then submitted as a formal document at the end of Week 7. You will then be held to that plan for the remainder of the project (subject to any agreed modifications). The software product will then be demonstrated in Week 13 (the last week of semester). Thus it is important to develop a realistic and reasonable plan, and then to deliver on that plan.

An important part of the project is the appropriate use of project management tools for planning and executing the project. You need to use a suitable software tool such as Pivotal Tracker, though other tools can be used — provided they support full agile planning and estimation (check with the lecturer in charge before using any other tool). Note that Trello is NOT a suitable tool for use in this project. You should make use of the tool when planning your project, and be prepared to show the project plan using the tool during the plan presentation. You will also need to set up and use a git repository in this project. Every team member should regularly commit work to the repository, as this forms a further record of your contribution to software development.

A list of suggested projects from previous years is given below. However, you are encouraged to choose your own project, but this must be approved by the lecturers in advance of the development of the project plan. You must ensure that the project is of a scope suitable for a team project given both the size of the team and the time available, and suitable for you to demonstrate the required proficiency in software development.

You will be guided by your mentor, who will also play the role of the client/customer of your project. Since mentors play the role of clients, they cannot provide detailed technical advice on programming languages or platforms, but will endeavour to do so to the best of their abilities. In this role, they are to be considered more as end users who talk primarily to the Product Owner.

The mark for the project plan is an individual mark, and is based on a team presentation of an agile project plan both in a seminar and in a written document (each counting 10%, giving a total of 20%). The presentation should show the project plan entered into a project management tool. The project plan is assessed on completeness and feasibility of the plan, and appropriate use of project management tools in the planning stage. This results in a team mark, which is then moderated through peer assessment of individual contributions entered in Moodle using the Team Evaluation tool.

The mark for the software product is divided into an individual mark and a team mark. You should maintain an individual diary that contains your personal record of your daily standups (the entries should be written answers to the three standard daily standup questions: what did I do yesterday?, what will I do today?, is anything in my way?), plus any planning documents (such as system designs, user interface mockups). You will need to show this to your mentor at regular intervals as this contributes to your individual mark, and also so that they can assess whether your team project is on track. In addition, two meetings per team will be devoted to sprint reviews so that the meeting group can provide feedback to your team, plus you have the experience of participating in the audience of a sprint review. Part of your individual assessment is based on the extent to which you adopt appropriate professional and ethical practices during the project (e.g. attending meetings, keeping others informed of progress, etc.) and the use of project management tools.

The mark for the software product is determined from a presentation held in Week 13, and is partly based on the degree to which the presented product meets the system proposed in the project plan. Thus for the software product, while more sophisticated systems generally receive higher marks, it is critical to meet agreed requirements (i.e. a simpler product of sufficient scope that performs according to requirements is superior to a more complex product that fails to meet its requirements). The mark comprises an individual component (10%) and a team component (20%) making up 30%. The individual component mark assesses contributions to software development and project management using as evidence the reflective diary, the git log for the project, the taskboard, and peer assessments of contributions; the team component mark is based on the presentation. Each member of a team generally receives the same mark for the team component of the project, however in "dysfunctional teams" where member contributions are highly unequal, especially taking account of software development, individual marks for this component will be adjusted to reflect the level of contribution. The Moodle Team Evaluation tool will be used to enable each team member to assess (anonymously) the relative contributions of the team members. These peer assessments, along with comments entered using the tool, will be taken into account in any mark adjustments.
Note that as a guide, it is suggested to spend roughly 60-65 hours per person on the software project over the semester (this includes all aspects of the project including planning, development and testing of the software product, and attendance at meetings). It is the responsibility of the team (at planning time) to ensure (to the best of their knowledge) that their project can be completed within such a resource allocation.

Assessment

Individual component: based on contributions to software development and teamwork practices as recorded in your individual diary and evidenced by the task board, and possibly adjusted based on peer assessments

Team component: based on the quality of the software product and teamwork practices as determined from your presentation, and subject to modification using peer evaluations where individual contributions, especially to software development, are highly unequal

Software quality: Requirements satisfaction, correctness, adherence to design principles
Teamwork practices: Appropriate refinement of scope, stories, tasks, estimations, etc., and use of project management tools

Marking Scheme (Rough guide only!)

50	Basic software system meeting a only a few objectives, with software process vaguely followed
65	Moderately advanced software system meeting major objectives, with software process more-or-less followed
75	Sophisticated, documented software system meeting most objectives, with software process followed systematically
85	Highly sophisticated, well documented software system meeting all objectives, with software process followed systematically
95	Highly ambitious, well documented software system meeting all objectives, with software process followed rigorously
